Welcome to our first week.
My name is Prashan and
with me today is Nicky.
So Nicky, in our
business example,
which is our case study,
we need to help Zara from
accounts address the
issues in her data,
usually the first steps in
data analysis as you
prepare the data.
So I assume that is
what we are going to be
starting with this week.
Yes, Prashan. But we
actually have two
objectives this week.
The first thing we want
to do is actually develop
techniques for working
confidently with Excel functions.
That will help us unlock
the full power of Excel.
Alongside that, we're going to
cover a comprehensive
range of functions,
the manipulating and
cleaning text data.
This is really important
because we can't probably
analyze data if it's invalid
or advanced suitable format.
Absolutely. Can you give us
some examples of the types
of text functions we'll be
looking at and why
we would use them?
Yeah, of course. So
one common problem,
for example, is that we may
need to join texts together.
For example, let's
say you want to do
a lookup on somebody's full name
and you have the first name
and you have the surname,
but they're in separate
columns, making impossible.
We're going to look
at some functions
like CONCATENATE and TEXTJOIN
that will help us
join text together and
solve this problem.
I've also encountered
the opposite problem
where you have two pieces
of information in the same column
and you need to separate them.
Yeah and that's exactly
what we're going to
look at in our second topic,
where we are going to
introduce the functions LEFT,
RIGHT and MID, which
allow us to split data.
Sounds great. But just
wondering for the
separating data bit,
can't we just use
the built-in text to columns
tool on the data ribbon?
Look, text to columns is
a great tool for the
occasional one off,
but it actually
has two downsides.
First of all, you're
going to have to redo it
every time you import your data.
The other problem is you
lose your original values.
Our long-term strategy is to
build a workbook which is
totally automated and can be
reused every month or every week.
All you have to do
is put the data
in and Excel does all the rest.
To achieve this, we're going
to need Excel functions.
I'm convinced. So tell us
more about cleaning data please.
I've had some real issues
with spaces because a lot
of people automatically type
a space at the end of a word.
But Excel doesn't just ignore
these spaces and so when
I summarize the data,
I end up with one total for
Sydney and one total for
Sydney with a space.
I know exactly what you mean.
But the good news is I have
a miracle cure called TRIM,
which will rid you of all
those problematic spaces.
We're also going to look at
a function called CLEAN,
which cleans up a lot of
other weird characters
that look like
spaces but are actually
non-printing characters.
So does CLEAN clean up all
the non-printing characters?
ACtually that's a
common misconception.
It only cleans
the first 32 non-printing
ASCII characters.
But don't worry, we're also
going to look at
a function called
SUBSTITUTE that will help
us get rid of the others.
Now you mentioned
ASCII characters.
For those who haven't
heard this term before,
could you please explain
what they are quickly?
So ASCII is a computer
encoding system
where every character that we
see on the screen
is actually given
a numeric code from
naught to 255.
So for example, the ASCII code
for space is actually
the number 32,
whereas a capital A is 65.
Now it's not really
important to know these,
but we have included
an ASCII table in the practice
book for your reference.
Thanks Nicki. I am really
excited to get started.
But we're covering
so much content,
how are our learners
going to remember it all?
Well, that's the best news.
I mean, they don't
actually have to
remember the detail of
every single function
as long as they understand
the principle of how
the functions work.
We have a full function library
on the Formulas ribbon.
Excel's help is excellent
if you need to check
how our function
works and the functions
themselves actually
guide you with prompts.
We've also provided a fabulous
quick reference guide in
the toolbox which summarizes
all the functions we're
covering this week.
It also has some useful
keyboard shortcuts and
even some bonus content for
those who'd like to
dive a little deeper.
So to summarize, these are
the topics that we'll
be covering this week,
functions for combining text,
functions for splitting text,
combining text functions,
cleaning data and changing case,
removing and replacing
unwanted characters.
Each topic has a
great training video
for you to watch
and you will get a
lot more out of
them if you follow
along in the practice
workbooks provided.
There is a workbook
for each video,
but you can keep working
in the same workbook from
the previous exercise as
long as you've completed
all the activities.
After each video, there
is a quiz for you to
test your knowledge and
at the end of the week,
we have a practice
challenge for you to
practice all the amazing
new skills that you have learned.
Now it's over to you.